---
title: Mix It Up, Manual, Audio, Accessories
module: 13
jotted: true
---

# Mix It Up

<a href="https://umontana.zoom.us/rec/play/uZMqdLr6-Do3S4Gd5gSDVv97W9W8ffishCFLrvQPxBq1W3UCNFb0ZucTZOSBRfdYvWOkfxNc6adnnEwx?continueMode=true">Video</a>

This section really deals with making your video more interesting. You want to make shorter clips that can be edited and stitched together to complete the story.  Remember to think about what is the story you want to tell.

# Manual Exposure and Focus

Most smart phone cameras have a manual mode in which you can turn on.  It all varies depending on the app that your camera uses, but typically there is a manual mode.  There a few things in which you can change when you go into manual mode.

Below are some definitions of the manual settings.  Source [Android Authority](https://www.androidauthority.com/manual-mode-mobile-photography-984189/)

## ISO

ISO stands for “International Organization of Standardization,” which is in charge of standardizing sensitivity ratings for camera sensors. When shooting, altering the ISO will determine how sensitive a sensor is to light.

A lower ISO will make the sensor less sensitive to light, which means you might have to make the aperture wider and/or slow down the shutter speed. At the same time, the image will be cleaner.

Increasing the ISO will let you capture light faster, allowing you to speed up the shutter or widen the aperture, but it will also make for an image with more grain or digital noise. The quality of the image decreases as you increase ISO.

## Shutter speed

Camera systems have a shutter that covers and uncovers the sensor. Shutter speed determines the length of time this shutter will stay open to allow more light to reach the sensor.

A faster shutter speed will result in less exposure, but it will make images sharper. Likewise, extending the shutter speed can create motion blur, but it will let light in for a longer period of time, providing more exposure.

## Aperture

Camera systems have a diaphragm, which is a hole through which light has to go through to reach the sensor. Aperture controls how wide or narrow this hole is.

A wider aperture will increase exposure. It will also decrease depth of field and make the background/foreground blurrier. If you want to keep more in focus, a narrower aperture will do better, but you will have to make up for the lost exposure modifying the ISO or shutter speed. In this case, a larger number will signify a narrower aperture. For example, f/1.8 is wider than f/2.8.


# Good Audio

What makes good audio?  You want to make sure you are clear and try to eliminate any background noise if possible. This isn't always possible.  Sometimes you want background noise depending on the experience you want to create.  That is why it's so important to script out what you want to do before you start on your journey.

# Smart Accessories

There a number of amazing accessories that you can get for your mobile phone.  I encourage you to take a look around and see what is available.  You will be amazed by how affordable of number of them are making it so that you don't have to spend much money take incredible video and audio.  Here's a link to some different products out there.

[Resource](http://resourcemagonline.com/2019/01/20-best-mobile-photography-accessories-of-2018/109966/)
